## 1.0.0

* Graduate package to 1.0. No functional changes.

## 0.14.4
* Add `permissiveEnums` option to `mergeFromProto3Json`.
  It will do a case-insensitive matching of enum values ignoring `-` and `_`.
* Add support for 'ensureX' methods generated by `protoc_plugin` 19.0.0.
* Add specialized getters for `String`, `int`, and `bool` with usual default values.
* Shrink dart2js generated code for `getDefault()`.
* Added an annotation class `TagNumber`. This is used by code generated by
  `protoc_plugin` from version 19.0.0.

## 0.14.3

* Fix: Allow decoding tagnumbers of up to 29 bits. Would fail before with more than 28 bits.

## 0.14.2

*  Expose `mapEntryBuilderInfo` in `MapFieldInfo`.

## 0.14.1

* Support for `import public`.

  The generated code for a protofile `a.proto` that `import public "b.proto"` will export the
  generated code for `b.proto`.

  See https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto#importing-definitions.

## 0.14.0

* Support for proto3 json (json with field names as keys)
  - encoding and decoding.
  - Support for well-known types.
  - Use `GeneratedMessage.toProto3Json()` to encode and `GeneratedMessage.mergeFromProto3Json(json)`
    to decode.

* `FieldInfo` objects have a new getter `.protoName` that gives the non-camel-case name of the field
  as in the `.proto`-file.

* **Breaking**: The field-adder methods on `BuilderInfo` now takes only named optional arguments.
  To migrate, update `protoc_plugin` to version 18.0.0 or higher.
* The field-adder methods on `BuilderInfo` all take a new argument `protoName`.
* **Breaking**: Changed `ExtensionRegistry.reparseMessage` to reparse extensions deeply, that is it looks at every
nested message and tries to reparse extensions from its unknown fields.

## 0.13.16+1

* Reverts `0.13.16` which accidentally introduced a breaking change,
  [#284](https://github.com/dart-lang/protobuf/issues/284). This release is
  identical to `0.13.15`.

## 0.13.16

* Better handling of dummy calls to `BuilderInfo.add` with a tag number of 0.
  These would trigger assertions before.

## 0.13.15

* Add new getter `GeneratedMessage.isFrozen` to query if the message has been frozen.

## 0.13.14

* Avoid needless copy when reading from a Uint8List buffer.

## 0.13.13

* `Added `ExtensionRegistry.reparseMessage()` for decoding extensions from unknown fields after the initial
   decoding.

## 0.13.12

* `BuilderInfo.add` now ignores fields with tag number 0.
   These would never be generated by the protoc_plugin so this is not considered a breaking change.

## 0.13.11

* Save memory by only initializing `_FieldSet.oneofCases` if the message contains oneofs.

## 0.13.10

* Fix recursive merging of repeated elements.

## 0.13.9

* Move 'eventPlugin' callback when setting a field in order to notify observers about field updates in the correct order.

## 0.13.8

* Fix JSON serialization of unsigned 64-bit fields.

## 0.13.7

* Override `operator ==` and `hashCode` in `PbMap` so that two `PbMap`s are equal if they have equal key/value pairs.

## 0.13.6

* Fixed equality check between messages with and without extensions.

## 0.13.5

* Add new method `addAll` on ExtensionRegistry for more conveniently adding multiple extensions at once.

## 0.13.4

* Add new method `pc` on BuilderInfo for adding repeated composite fields and remove redundant type check on items added
  to a PbList.

  Deprecated `BuilderInfo.pp` and `PbList.forFieldType`.

## 0.13.3

* Fix issue with parsing map field entries. The values for two different keys would sometimes be
  merged.

* Deprecated `PBMap.add`.

## 0.13.2

* Include extension fields in GeneratedMessage.toString().

## 0.13.1

* Fix issue with not being able to read unknown fields after freezing.

Reading an unknown field set after freeze() now returns the existing field set before freezing instead of an empty UnknownFieldSet.

## 0.13.0

* Breaking change: Fix issue with not being able to read extensions after freezing.

Reading an extension field after freeze() now returns the value set before freezing instead of the default value.

## 0.12.0

* Breaking change: Changed `BuilderInfo.m()` to take class and package name of the protobuf message representing the map
  entry. Also changed `BuilderInfo.addMapField` as well as the constructors `PbMap` and `MapFieldInfo.map` to take a map
  entry BuilderInfo object.

  This mostly affects generated code, which should now be built with protoc_plugin 15.0.0 or newer.

  With this change we avoid creating a map entry BuilderInfo object for each PbMap instance, instead it is passed
  through the static BuilderInfo object in the generated subclasses of GeneratedMessage.

## 0.11.0

* Breaking change: changed semantics of `GeneratedMessage.toBuilder()` to only make a shallow copy.

  `GeneratedMessage` has a new abstract method: `createEmptyInstance()` that subclasses must
  implement.

  Proto files must be rebuilt using protoc_plugin 14.0.0 or newer.

## 0.10.8

* Fix freezing of map fields.

## 0.10.7

* Fixed problem with recursive merging of sub messages.

## 0.10.6

* Added support for [oneof](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#oneof). To use oneof support
  use Dart protoc_plugin version 13.0.0.

## 0.10.5

* Added support for [map fields](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#maps).
  Map fields are now represented as Dart maps and are accessed through a getter with the same name as the map field.
  To use the map support, use Dart protoc_plugin version 11.0.0 or newer.

## 0.10.4

* Added separate getter for `BuilderInfo.qualifiedMessageName`.

## 0.10.3

* Added type argument to `ProtobufEnum.initByValue` which allows the return
  value to be fully typed.

## 0.10.2

* Added ProtobufEnum reserved names.

## 0.10.1

* Added Support for [any](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#any) messages.

## 0.10.0

* Breaking change: Add `GeneratedMessage.freeze()`. A frozen message and its
  sub-messages cannot be changed.

## 0.9.1

* Fix problem with encoding negative enum values.
* Fix problem with encoding byte arrays.

## 0.9.0+1

* Dart SDK upper constraint raised to declare compatability with Dart 2.0 stable.

## 0.9.0

* Breaking change: Changed signature of `CodedBufferWriter.writeTo` to require
  `Uint8List` for performance.
* More Dart 2 fixes.

## 0.8.0

* Breaking change: Added generics to RpcClient.invoke(). Proto files must be
  rebuilt using Dart protoc_plugin version 0.8.0 or newer to match.
* Dart 2 fixes.

## 0.7.2+1

- Updated SDK version to 2.0.0-dev.17.0

## 0.7.2

* Fix hashing for PbList.

## 0.7.1

* Fix type in PbList.fold() for Dart 2.
* Small performance tweaks for DDC.

## 0.7.0

* Added fast getters for common types.
* Only pass index instead of both tag and index to accessors.
* Delegate more methods to underlying list in PbList.
* Small fixes for Dart 2.0.

## 0.6.0

* Added enumValues to FieldInfo. Fixes #63.
* Small performance optimization when deserializing repeated messages
  from JSON.
* Type annotations for strong mode.

## 0.5.5

* Use real generic syntax instead of comment-based.
* Support v2 dev SDKs.

## 0.5.4

* Unknown enum values are ignored when parsing JSON, instead of throwing an
  exception.

## 0.5.3+2

* Resolved a strong-mode error.

## 0.5.3+1

* Performance: Avoid excessive cloning in merge.
* Performance: Use code patterns that dart2js handles better.

## 0.5.3

* fix zigzag function so all coded buffer reader tests work on dart2js.

## 0.5.2

* make PbMixin constructor public for use within protoc plugin.

## 0.5.1+5

* Revert previous change because it causes strong mode type error
in the generated code. We will revisit this in a new version of
mixin support.

## 0.5.1+4

* Use a more refined implementation of `Map` in `PbMapMixin`

## 0.5.1+3

* Performance: eliminate some dynamic calls.

## 0.5.1+2

* Bugfix: remove dependency on `pkg/crypto` for real.

## 0.5.1+1

* Require at least Dart SDK 1.13.

* Removed dependency on `pkg/crypto`.

## 0.5.1

* Experimental support for strong mode.
* Fixed an issue with GeneratedMessage operator== and Map mixins
* Added declaration of GeneratedMessage clone method

## 0.5.0+1

* Support the latest version of package `fixnum`.

## 0.5.0
 * Reorganized internals to improve performance. We now store
   field values in a list instead of a map. Private properties
   and methods are all moved to the \_FieldSet class. There
   are new entry points for generated getters, hazzers, and
   setters. Improved JSON decoding performance.
 * Dropped compatibility with .pb.dart files before 0.4.2
   by removing internal constants from GeneratedMessage. Also,
   protoc plugins before 0.5.0 won't work.

## 0.4.2
 * Renamed FieldType to PbFieldType.

## 0.4.1 - DO NOT USE
 * added FieldType class. It turned out that FieldType is a
   commonly used name, even in .proto files. This is renamed to
   PbFieldType in 0.4.2.
 * Added support for observing field changes.
   For now, this can only be enabled by using a mixin to override
   the eventPlugin getter.
 * Removed optional third parameter from setField().
   It was only intended for internal use, and could be used to
   defeat type checks on fields.
 * clearExtension() removes the value and extension in all cases.
   (Before, the extension would be kept and the list cleared
   for repeated fields.)
 * Upcoming: clearField() will require its argument to be a known
   tag number (which could be an extension). For now, this is only
   enforced when a mixin provides an eventPlugin.

## 0.4.0
 * Add ReadonlyMessageMixin. The generated message classes use this to
   for the default values of message fields.

## 0.3.11
 * Add meta.dart which declares reserved names for the plugin.

## 0.3.10
 * Add GeneratedService and ProtobufClient interfaces.

## 0.3.9
 * Add experimental mixins_meta library
 * Add experimental PbMapMixin class (in a separate library).
 * Fix bug where ExtensionRegistry would not be used for nested messages.

## 0.3.7
 * More docs.

## 0.3.6
 * Added mergeFromMap() and writeToJsonMap()
 * Fixed an analyzer warning.

## 0.3.5+3
 * Bugfix for `setRange()`: Do not assume Iterable has a `sublist()` method.

## 0.3.5+2
 * Simplify some types used in is checks and correct PbList to match the
 * signature of the List setRange method.

## 0.3.5+1

 * Bugfix for incorrect decoding of protobuf messages: Uint8List views with
   non-zero offsets were handled incorrectly.

## 0.3.5

 * Allow constants as field initial values as well as creation thunks to reduce
   generated code size.

 * Improve the performance of reading a protobuf buffer.

 * Fixed truncation error in least significant bits with large Int64 constants.
